{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa160\sl256\slmult0\qc\f0\fs36\lang9 Risk Assessment\par

\pard\sa160\sl256\slmult0\fs28\par
3.1 Risk Assessment Methodology:\par
\fs22\par
\fs28 1.Identify Risks: \par
\fs22 The first step is to identify potential risks relevant to the organization or project. This can be done through brainstorming sessions, historical data analysis, expert opinions, and industry best practices. Risks can be internal (such as operational failures or resource constraints) or external (such as regulatory changes or market fluctuations).\tab\par
\fs28 2.Assess Probability: \par
\fs22 Once the risks are identified, assess the likelihood or probability of each risk occurring. This can be done using qualitative or quantitative methods. Qualitative assessment involves assigning subjective ratings (low, medium, high) based on expert judgment or historical data. Quantitative assessment involves using statistical models, historical data, or probability calculations to determine the likelihood of each risk event.\par
\fs28 3.Assess Impact:\par
\fs22  Evaluate the potential impact or consequences of each identified risk. This involves considering the severity of the impact on various aspects such as financial, operational, reputational, legal, or safety. Similar to probability assessment, impact assessment can be qualitative or quantitative, depending on the available data and expertise.\par
\fs28 4.Determine Risk Level: \par
\fs22 Combine the probability and impact assessments to determine the overall risk level for each identified risk. This is typically done by plotting the risks on a risk assessment matrix, which categorizes risks into high, medium, or low risk levels. The matrix helps prioritize risks based on their potential impact and probability of occurrence.\par
\fs28 5.Mitigation and Management: \par
\fs22 Once risks are assessed and categorized, develop strategies to mitigate or Remidations  of the identified risks. This involves creating risk mitigation plans, setting up control measures, defining risk ownership, and assigning responsibilities. The aim is to reduce the probability or impact of risks, transfer risks through insurance or contracts, or accept risks with contingency plans in place.\par
\fs28 6.Monitor and Review: \par
\fs22 Regularly monitor the effectiveness of risk mitigation strategies and review the risk assessment process. Risk assessments should be an ongoing process, as new risks may emerge, existing risks may evolve, or mitigation measures may require adjustment. Periodic review and update of the risk assessment methodology ensure its relevance and effectiveness.\par
It's worth noting that there are other risk assessment methodologies available, such as Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (FMEA), Bowtie analysis, and Monte Carlo simulation. The choice of methodology depends on the specific requirements, industry standards, and available resources of the organization or project.\par
\par
\par
\par
\fs28 3.2 Risk findings:\par
\par
1.Review the Risk Assessment Methodology:\par
\fs22  Familiarize yourself with the chosen risk assessment methodology that will guide your findings. Ensure you understand the key components, such as risk identification, probability assessment, impact assessment, risk categorization, and mitigation strategies.\par
\fs28 2.Gather Information:\par
\fs22  Collect relevant data and information about the organization, project, or context being assessed. This may include historical data, incident reports, industry regulations, stakeholder interviews, and internal documentation. The information gathered should help you identify potential risks and understand their impact.\par
\fs28 3.Identify Risks: \par
\fs22 Use the information gathered to identify specific risks that could impact the organization or project. Consider both internal and external risks, including operational, financial, legal, reputational, and strategic risks. Involve relevant stakeholders to ensure a comprehensive identification process.\par
\fs28 4.Assess Probability:\par
\fs22  Evaluate the likelihood or probability of each identified risk occurring. This can be done using qualitative or quantitative methods, depending on the available data and expertise. Use historical data, statistical analysis, expert opinions, or probability models to determine the likelihood of each risk event.\par
\fs28 5.Assess Impact:\par
\fs22  Determine the potential impact or consequences of each identified risk. Consider various factors, such as financial, operational, reputational, legal, or safety impacts. Assess the severity and magnitude of each risk's potential consequences. This assessment can also be qualitative or quantitative, depending on the data and analysis methods used.\par
\fs28 6.Determine Risk Level:\par
\fs22  Combine the probability and impact assessments to determine the overall risk level for each identified risk. This can be done by using a risk assessment matrix or other categorization methods. Categorize risks into high, medium, or low risk levels to prioritize them effectively.\par
\fs28 7.Develop Mitigation Strategies:\par
\fs22  Based on the risk assessment findings, develop strategies to mitigate or manage the identified risks. Identify appropriate risk controls, preventive measures, and contingency plans to reduce the probability or impact of risks. Assign responsibilities, define action plans, and establish monitoring mechanisms to ensure the effectiveness of the mitigation strategies.\par
\fs28 8.Document and Communicate Findings: \par
\fs22 Document the risk assessment findings in a clear and concise manner. Include the identified risks, their probability, impact, and risk levels, as well as the recommended mitigation strategies. Communicate the findings to relevant stakeholders, such as management, project teams, or regulatory bodies, to ensure everyone is aware of the risks and the proposed mitigation measures.\par
\fs28 9.Monitor and Review:\fs22\par
 Continuously monitor the effectiveness of the implemented risk mitigation strategies. Regularly review and update the risk assessment findings to account for any changes in the organization, project, or external environment. Conduct periodic reassessments to identify new risks or changes in the existing risk landscape\par
\par
\par
\fs28 3.3. Risk Treatment:\par
\fs22 The risk treatment phase involves determining appropriate strategies to mitigate the identified risks. The strategies considered for each risk can include:\par
\fs28 1. Risk Avoidance: \par
\fs22 This involves eliminating or avoiding the risk altogether by implementing measures to remove or eliminate the associated threat, vulnerability, or asset. For example, discontinuing the use of a vulnerable software component or decommissioning a legacy system.\par
\fs28 2. Risk Transfer:\par
\fs22  Risk transfer involves transferring the risk to another party, typically through insurance or contractual agreements. This strategy may be applicable for risks that cannot be fully mitigated internally or where the potential financial impact can be better managed by external entities.\par
\fs28\par
3. Risk Acceptance:\par
\fs22  For certain risks with low potential impact or likelihood, the university may choose to accept the risks without implementing specific mitigation measures. This decision should be based on a thorough assessment of the risk and a consideration of the associated costs and benefits.\par
\fs28 4. Risk Mitigation:\par
\fs22  Risk mitigation involves implementing measures to reduce the likelihood or impact of identified risks. This can include implementing security controls, applying patches and updates, conducting security awareness training, enhancing monitoring capabilities, or improving incident response procedures.\par
\par
}
 